---
layout: post
title:  "Deep Work"
author: Armando Sierra
date:   2020-07-12 13:00:00 +0900
categories: self-improvement
tags: revamp site blog

---

## PART 1: The Idea
### Chapter 1: Deep Work is Valuable
Those who will thrive in the new economy:
* High-skilled workers
* Superstars
* People with capital

Deep work helps with becoming the first two ;).

Abilities necessary to thrive in the new economy:
* The ability to quickly master things
* The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed

Deep work helps with this too ;)

### Chapter 2: Deep Work is Rare
* The metric black hole
* The principle of least resistance
* Busyness as a proxy for productivity
* The cult of the 'Internet'

### Chapter 3: Deep Work is Meaningful
Like the craftsman, deep work allows us to find the sacredness in our work.
His task is “not to generate meaning, but rather to cultivate in himself the skill of discerning the meanings that are already there”.

## PART 2: The Rules
### Rule #1: Work Deeply
Choose a deep work philosophy:
* Monastic (Knuth)
* Bimodel (Jung)
* Rhythmic (Seinfield)
* Journalistic (Newport)

Ritualize:
* Where and how long you'll work 
* How you'll work (bans, metrics)
* How you'll support your work (food, exercise, organization)

Grand gestures help!
But the takeaway is: take it seriously.
Deep work time is deep work time and that's final.

Collaboration is possible, with balance.

How to do it vs. what you should do.
Strategizing is easy, execution is the hard part.

4DX (disciplines) of execution, applied to developing a deep work habit:
1. Focus on wildly important (ambition)
2. Act on the lead measures (results vs. hours worked deeply)
3. Keep a compelling scoreboard (visible)
4. Create a cadence of accountability (check yourself, like a meeting)

A shutdown routine is necessary.
It replenishes your energy and lets the subconscious work.
This routine should put an end to all work-related tasks.
This is done by reviewing and planning unfinished tasks.

### Rule #2: Embrace Boredom

