---
layout: post
title:  "Deep Work"
author: Armando Sierra
date:   2020-07-13 15:00:00 +0900
categories: self-improvement
tags: self-improvement book notes

---

## PART 1: The Idea
### Chapter 1: Deep Work is Valuable
Those who will thrive in the new economy:
* High-skilled workers
* Superstars
* People with capital

Deep work helps with becoming the first two ;).

Abilities necessary to thrive in the new economy:
* The ability to quickly master things
* The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed

Deep work helps with this too ;)

### Chapter 2: Deep Work is Rare
* The metric black hole
* The principle of least resistance
* Busyness as a proxy for productivity
* The cult of the 'Internet'

### Chapter 3: Deep Work is Meaningful
Like the craftsman, deep work allows us to find the sacredness in our work.
His task is “not to generate meaning, but rather to cultivate in himself the skill of discerning the meanings that are already there”.

## PART 2: The Rules
### Rule #1: Work Deeply
Choose a deep work philosophy:
* Monastic (Knuth)
* Bimodel (Jung)
* Rhythmic (Seinfield)
* Journalistic (Newport)

Ritualize:
* Where and how long you'll work 
* How you'll work (bans, metrics)
* How you'll support your work (food, exercise, organization)

Grand gestures help!
But the takeaway is: take it seriously.
Deep work time is deep work time and that's final.

Collaboration is possible, with balance.

How to do it vs. what you should do.
Strategizing is easy, execution is the hard part.

4DX (disciplines) of execution, applied to developing a deep work habit:
1. Focus on wildly important (ambition)
2. Act on the lead measures (results vs. hours worked deeply)
3. Keep a compelling scoreboard (visible)
4. Create a cadence of accountability (check yourself, like a meeting)

A shutdown routine is necessary.
It replenishes your energy and lets the subconscious work.
This routine should put an end to all work-related tasks.
This is done by reviewing and planning unfinished tasks.

### Rule #2: Embrace Boredom
The ability to concentrate intensely is a skill that must be trained
* Constant switching between low/high stimuli activities impedes deep work
* Take breaks from focus, not distractions
* Schedule Internet blocks
* Artifical deadlines to work with great intensity (Roosevelt)

Productive meditation (walking, exercising)
* Reviewing and storing variables
* Identifying and tackling the next-step question
* (solve)
* Consolidating gains - review your answer

Memorize a deck of cards - focus your attention on a clear target

### Rule #3: Quit Social Media
(Tool selection)
Any-benefit Mind-set:
Any benefit is enough reason to adopt a tool  
Craftsman Approach:
Based on the factors that determine success and happiness
in your professional and personal life, adopt a tool only when 
its positive impacts substantially outweigh its negative impacts.

Strategy:
* Identify the main high-level goals in your professional/personal life
* List 2-3 of the most important activites that help you satisfy these goals
* Consider the tool

The 30-day approach: quit for 30 days, review the impact

Put more though into your leisure time.

> "One of the chief things which my typical man has to learn is that the mental faculties are capable of a continuous hard activity; they do not tire like an arm or a leg. All they want is change—not rest, except in sleep." - Arnold Bennett

### Rule #4: Drain the Shallows
* Schedule every minute of your day - blocks
* Quantify the depth of every activity - how long would it take a bright college graduate to do it?
* Fixed-schedule productivity - Finish your work by five thirty
* Become hard to reach

